As someone who's built a career around
writing, I think that AI is going to
shake the foundations of the writing
world. I got two big thoughts. Number
one, if you're a writer and you're
completely ignoring, completely
dismissing AI, I think you're out of
your mind. Okay? But also, there's going
to be major room for writers to succeed.
It's not all doom and gloom. Really good
writers are going to be are going to be
all right. But the question is, how do
those two things square together? And if
you're a writer, how should you be
thinking about AI? Well, that's what
this episode's all about. What I'm going
to do is I'm going to show you how I
write with AI, how I think with AI, and
how to make your writing AI
proof. I got my notes here and I'm just
going to talk about it. These are all
the things that I've learned over the
past few months since AI really kind of
kicked off that existential crisis in
me. And I'll just start off with a
little bit of backstory. So, I ran a
writing school called Write a Passage
for like six years. Taught thousands of
students, some of whom became really
successful. And the whole point and
purpose of the school was you'd come in
and if you wanted to build an online
audience, you would start writing
consistently, publish an
article, say every week or so, build an
email newsletter and then become a
domain expert for whatever it was that
that you knew a lot about or were really
passionate about. And a lot of people
did that. Then other people got really
excited about telling their personal
stories. There was some some idea, some
story that they had always wanted to
tell in their life. and write a passage
became a place where they could do that.
So ran that thousands of students and I
was really focused on the curriculum.
And what's funny is we ended right of
passage in November. It's now been less
than 6 months and back in November AI
was less than 10% of the curriculum. Now
I can't even imagine it not being the
lynch pin of it. both because of how
fast things have changed, but also
because of how much people are talking
about AI now in a way that they weren't
just 6 months ago. That's how fast
things are changing. And I still
remember, you know, I still remember
being in my apartment. It was late at
night. I had this old couch that I
bought on Facebook Marketplace and
somebody had recommended an article to
me from Steven Johnson, an article in
the New York Times, and it was about
GPT3. So, this is like a long time ago,
like this is eons ago, like the dinosaur
age of AI. And the article was about how
LLM worked and how you could basically
predict sentences. It actually has one
of the best opening paragraphs of any
article I've ever read. I remember
reading it, sitting there, and that was
like when this first when the light bulb
sort of came on for me. I was like, you
know what? Maybe there's something here.
And it was the first time that I began
to understand sort of at a high level
how do LLMs work? What is going on here?
How are they
predicting words and working at a
technological level and then I had a
mentor who runs a multi-billion dollar
company and his whole goal for the
company in 2023 was to get them to be AI
first. And I would sit there at dinner
with him and I really admire this guy
from a business perspective. And we'd be
sitting at dinner and say, "Oh yeah, AI
this, AI that." And I was like, "Dude, I
don't know. I don't know. I'm kind of a
skeptic. Like, if you actually use these
things, they're not that good. They
hallucinate all the time. I don't know.
It's just no better than than what a
human can do. It's not even close." He's
like, "You got to watch the rate of
growth." And I really believe that
this this technology is going to start
growing really fast. So I'm going to
have thousands of my employees to start
really focusing on AI. He put in a
hiring free so that the companies they
couldn't even grow. They had to get more
efficient with AI. I was like, dude,
you're crazy.
And
then fast forward a bit, I began to see
glimmers of it in 2024, but it was
really at the end of that year. I did a
trip to Argentina. And it was sort of my
first time taking serious time off in in
a while. And I when I travel, I just
love to learn about wherever I am. So
what I would do is as I would spend the
day in Buenocidis, I would, you know, be
in an art museum or I'd see a statue and
I'd basically have a question and I'd
put it
into GPT and then it would get the
answer in the background and then at
night I'd come home and I would read all
the answers of questions that I'd asked
throughout the day. So because of that,
I could basically file ideas into chat
GPT and then at the end of the day have
like a whole summary on the things that
I needed to
know. And man, it was so cool. I feel
like I learned so much from from doing
that. And I was like, whoa, I now have a
tour guide with me at all times. The AI
answers were more useful for me from a
learning perspective than hiring actual
tour guides for basically all the tour
guides I hired. I probably hired four or
five tour guides down there for various
things. There's only one tour guide that
was better than what the AI would have
given me, which is pretty crazy. But
it's not just that. The models
themselves are getting better and
cheaper at a really fast rate. So for
starters, the amount that I'm engaging
with AI is up like 10x in the past year.
But there's also a lot of competition
for who's going to make the best model.
And you'll notice because there's so
much competition, prices are falling,
and people are competing like crazy to
basically try to have the best model
that you can go to. I remember it was
2023, GPT4 came out, and it was so much
better than the other models. It was
like Lil Wayne has this line, I'm
resting in the lead, need a pillow and a
cover. It was like they are so far
ahead. And this was wild. Throughout the
year 2024, 18 different companies came
out with a model that was as good or
better than chat GPT4. And actually,
that's not obvious. I have the Jordan
Peterson in me. That's not obvious, you
know, because here's the thing. It could
have been one of those things where one
company, AGI, they're just going to hold
the keys to the kingdom. And actually,
there's a lot of different models that
are really good. But all this is to say
that if you're interested in writing and
you're just outright ignoring these
advancements or you're just dismissing
them, I just think you're a fool. I
think you're a fool. And we are on the
precipice of a new paradigm of writing.
Once again, that isn't something to be
terrified about. I really don't think
so. At least for writing. There's
there's there's societal issues. That's
another conversation. But GPT4.5 is like
routinely making me laugh out loud. So,
I want to show you this joke that I
found. This is a very niche example, but
it made me laugh so hard, me and some of
my friends, and it's a description of
Tyler Cowan's life. So, Tyler Cowan came
on the show recently. He's an economist
at George Mason, but he's also just like
a quirky and funny, very distinct guy,
and there's this meme, I think it's like
downstream of 4chan or something, but
it's like be me. And you'll see it's
like a funny formatting. And this guy
put in, hey, do like a be me joke about
Tyler Cowan. It is hilarious. It is so
funny. And now here's the thing. If
you're looking at it and you don't know
Tyler Cowan, you're like whatever. But
if you know Tyler Cowan stuff, this is
freaking hilarious. And I looked at
this. This was right after ChatgBT4.5
came out. And I was like, you could have
given me a week and I could not have
come out with something that funny. No
way. And this is a crucial point. AI is
going to be really good at super niche
humor. So, if you're interested in in in
some strange and esoteric thing and you
just want to get like funny takes, AI is
going to be really good at that because
the chances that some comedian is also
interested in that are going to be
pretty low. Obviously, this is a one-off
example, but William Gibson, the science
fiction writer, has this line that I
think about all the time where he says,
"The future is already here. It's just
not evenly distributed. And I think this
is how the future shows up. You see
little glimpses and little glimmers of
the future and then it you just have to
think in your mind, okay, if that
becomes higher resolution, what is it
going to look like? And I think this is
a good example of something that is way
funnier, way better than most of the
things that I see AI doing, which still
actually aren't that great. They're
okay, but like I can see the writing on
the wall when I look at something like
this. And the point is, I think it's not
just coming for humor. I think that what
it means to be a journalist, a
researcher, an academic, a full-time
author is going to be rewritten. It
actually already is being rewritten a
bit. Like Ethan Mollik, who is a writer,
I think he's at the University of
Pennsylvania, he said that the past 18
months have seen the most rapid change
in human written communication ever. As
of September 24th, 18% of financial
consumer complaints, 24% of press
releases, 15% of job postings, and 14%
of UN press releases showed signs of LLM
writing. These are just the official
stats, right? Cuz that's showed signs of
LLM writing. Like the number of people
who are probably using LLMs, but then
you don't see it showing up in their
writing is probably even higher. We're
seeing a major change. That's just in
the past 6 months. We're getting 24% of
press releases. But here's the thing.
Absolutely. Humans are still better at
writing than AIS in a lot of ways. But I
think that's about to change. I'll tell
you just about my own life, okay? It's
got to the point where a full-on half of
what I read probably is basically
generated by an AI. So like what am I
talking about? What am I reading? Well,
I have a lot of conversations with LLM.
So I'll go back and forth all the time.
you know, if I have a
question about how something works in
the world or I'm interested in, for
example, last night I went out for a
Wakan Mexican dinner and I love Wajaka
cheese. So, like something that I might
do today is like, teach me about Wakan
cheese. What creates the texture? Why
does it come from Wajaka? What makes it
so distinctive and unlike other cheese?
It used to be that I'd probably Google
something like that. Now, I just talk to
an LLM. But the thing that I really use
LLMs for is deep research reports. So if
you go on chat GBT at the bottom, if
you're on the pro or the professional or
the advanced or the professional
version, whatever the two paid versions
are, you'll see that there's a little
deep research button that you can press.
And those deep research reports are so
good. I'm generating a few of them every
single day. And here's an example of of
of how I use it. What it does is it uses
a kind of more advanced model under the
hood called 03 and it'll sort of scan
the internet for information. And the
way that I use it is I live on Ladybird
Lake in Austin. So there's this lake in
the center of the city and it's March
now. So the weather's getting nicer, the
leaves are beginning to come back and
you can sort of feel the world changing
as we move into springtime. and I have
this 20 25 minute walk between my
apartment and my office where I work and
I want to enjoy that walk more. So what
I did is I said hey deep research I want
you to basically make me a report on the
flora and the fauna in this area and I'm
particularly interested in how the
nature around me begins to change as we
move into springtime in Austin,
Texas. Super specific. And what it does
is it'll go off and it'll take a bunch
of really good pieces of information and
it'll come back and it'll deliver me a
full report that say two or three
thousand words that I can read that's
really tailored for my interests, my
curiosities at the moment, exactly where
I live and took me what 20 seconds to
produce the prompt, 5 minutes to
basically wait for an answer. And now I
feel like I know, you know what I mean?
It's like it's right there and I don't
have to go scan through a bunch of
Google reports or read something that's
generic. It's really really tailored to
my interests. And look, this is the
first version of the software. Deep
Research came out only a few months ago
and it's already at that level. And
you'll notice if you use it that the
writing itself actually has some voice
and some style in a way that chat GPT
definitely didn't have a year and a half
ago. Like half of the things that I read
are AI generated. And because of that,
I'm just reading fewer things that
humans have made because time is finite
and more of my reading is going to
things that computers have written. But
I don't just want to talk about where
things are now. I want to talk about
where things are going. Once again, I
don't believe that all writers are
screwed. I don't believe that we
shouldn't teach writing anymore. Um,
actually as I was prepping for this, you
know, I obviously used AI a bit, but
like the process of working on this
outline and putting my fingers on the
keyboard and really thinking through
things, a lot of ideas came to my head
and were c crystallized and clarified in
a way that they never would have been
had I not sat down to do the writing.
So, it's still the case that writing
improves your thinking and I still think
that'll continue to be true. But here's
what I do believe. But at the same time,
the number of people who can gain an
audience and make
money for their non-fiction
writing because they're able to just
outperform AI is going to fall. It's
going to fall considerably. It's going
to continue to do so. If you want to
make money as a writer, your writing is
going to have to get better and better.
So, here's my heristic for what kind of
non-fiction writing will last. Like, if
you're focused on that, what should you
do? The more that a piece of writing
comes from personal experience, the less
likely it is to be overtaken by AI. So
that's personal writing, that's things
like biographies, that's things like
memoirs. They ain't going to go away
anytime soon. And there's a few reasons
why. One major thing that we get from
from writing is connection. It's
connection. Like writing is a kind of
antidote to loneliness
and connection, humanto human
connection.
Like love is one of those things that
just has this infinite ceiling. Like if
you can really connect with somebody and
people feel like they're there with you.
They're in your mind as they're reading
your stuff, man, you got such a bright
future as a writer. That's not going to
go away. Like David Fosterall said that
a major reason why we read is to
countenance loneliness. To have the
thought that wow, there's somebody else
who feels this way like I do. I thought
I was the only one. We really want to
hear personal narratives. So, if an AI,
and I'm going to talk about this more
later, but if an AI can help you write
your personal narrative, great. I'm I'm
I'm totally a fan of that. That sounds
cool. I I personally have no issues with
that. I have no issues with that. But no
one wants to hear a personal narrative
from a computer. Like, that is a
completely hollow thing. And if you're
like, a personal narrative from a
computer, like, why would you ever want
to read that? I don't care how good it
is. Yo, I completely feel you. that that
that sounds like a completely soulless
enterprise. Okay, I hear where you're
coming from there. And this really
became clear to me when I read this
testimony of how the co-founder of
Wikipedia became a Christian a few a few
weeks ago and I was reading it and I was
just riveted. I was connecting with this
guy and I'm reading this piece about the
the ways that he changed his mind, his
life arc, his his emotional journey. It
is the most moving thing that I've read
all year. And that is exactly the kind
of writing that just isn't going to go
away with AI. Not at all. But it's not
just the personal narratives and you
being able to tell your own story. It's
also you got to be asking where do I
have
data, facts, information about the world
that the LLMs aren't going to have?
Because if you have that, it means that
you can write something that LLMs can't
possibly replicate. So obviously, you
know a lot about your life and that's
why biographies and memoirs and personal
stories will continue
to to work out and not be copied by
LLMs. But what about things that you
know about the world, right? Because
there's a lot of stuff in that
dimension, too. So I'll give you some
examples from my life. For example, like
I've lived in Austin for almost 5 years
now. So, there's things that I know
about the vibe of Austin that an LLM
isn't going to be able to replicate. I
just know those things because I live
here and I'm always talking to people
and I have this general sense of the
culture of Austin, the people who live
here, how the vibe is changing and I can
speak to that with a lot of specifics in
a way that LLM there's no way they can.
Another thing is like like I was saying
earlier, right? I ran right of passage
for for six years and we ran almost 200
live sessions. like I know how to run a
Zoom live session with a few hundred
people very well in a way that there's
just no way that an LLM is going to be
able to have an answer on that that I
have. There's just no way. I have that
experience. And then the other thing is
just things that are more cutting edge
and up-to-date. You know what happens
with information is it gets shared in
small tight tightly connected social
circles and it gets shared through sort
of whispers and voice and then it ends
up getting shared in conferences through
sort of more formal settings and maybe
podcast and then later on it kind of
ends up in books and it's only later
that the LLMs would end up actually
having that information. And to get
really concrete here, there are things
like I'm really interested in the
YouTube algorithm cuz that's what we're
focused on with how I write. And there's
things right now of how to grow on
YouTube and how the YouTube algorithm
works that I'm just talking to friends
about at dinner. And I know those things
in ways that the LLM just is not going
to know. And so all of those examples,
Austin, the intricacies of a Zoom live
session, talking to friends about the
YouTube algorithm, they come down to two
E. the two E of being differentiated
from LLMs in your non-fiction writing
which are
experience and expertise. If you have a
lot of experience in a particular
domain, if you have a lot of expertise,
you just know a lot about something and
you write that you put that onto the
page and you do it well, you're going to
be all right. You're going to be all
right. So the question is, okay, David,
you're talking about what I should do.
How is your writing gonna change? And
I'll tell you this, I'm definitely going
to focus on experience and expertise,
but also my writing is going to become
more personal. It's going to become more
opinionated. I want to just do bolder
work. And the piece that I'm writing
right now, it's a long piece right now.
It's probably at about 11,000 words, is
the story of how I became a Christian.
And one thing actually just to go back,
I read that testimony from the
co-founder of Wikipedia and I said, "If
I'm feeling this about that, well then I
can definitely do the same thing in my
own writing and I can trust that it's
going to stand the test of time." And I
encourage you to do the same thing. Just
start thinking, okay, as I'm reading a
piece of writing, do I think that this
is going to continue to last or will
become obsolete? Am I really moved by
this style of writing? And if so, well,
hey, maybe consider doing that kind of
writing yourself. And for me, what I
like about
the the story of how I became a
Christian is it's that personal story.
It's deeply emotional and it has a super
spiky point of view, which is how in the
world did I go from being raised Jewish,
basically being an atheist, living in
New York City, which is like the mecca
of materialism. How did I go from there
to then believing that Jesus Christ is
the literal son of God? Believing in the
historicity and truth of that story and
then thinking that he's my Lord and
Savior. That to me
was probably the biggest change of mind
I've had in my entire life. And how in
the world did I get to a place where I
thought this guy, God became flesh, died
on a cross, and was resurrected 3 days
later? I mean that idea seemed
absolutely crazy to me 10 years ago and
now I actually believe it. Like that is
a story worth telling and it's the kind
of thing like AI is not going to make
that obsolete that story if I do a good
job. There's just no way. There's no
way. There's no
way this piece right it's deeply
personal. It's deeply opinionated. It's
a story about what I've been through how
I've changed my mind.
extreme sorrow and pain and how I think
the world works. How I think what do I
think the story of reality is and it's
just about the greatest and most
intimate story that I have to tell. And
people will often say, you know, if
they're critiquing AI, they'll say, "Oh,
you know, you know, the best human
writing is still so much better than the
best AI writing. It's still like the
best writers are so much better. So like
why in the world would you even read
AI?" Like David, why are you reading all
this AI generated writing? You could go
read a bunch of other things. And here's
the thing, they'll say it's the best. So
the best is sort of talking about
quality.
And I've realized that there's really
two kinds of quality when you sit down
to read something. Okay? So there is the
objective quality of a
book. That's the first one. And this is
what everybody thinks about. So we'll
take a book like Gibbons, the decline
and fall of the Roman Empire. Okay,
people tell me amazing book. They'll say
the writing is is is really strong. It's
been super influential. Sure, you know,
maybe you got some facts wrong, but
David, you got to read this book. Or
they'll talk about The Power Broker.
That's one of my favorites. The Power
Broker by Robert Carrow. It is
1,344 pages. But David, I know it's
long, but I'll tell you, Robert Caro is
such a good writer. He does insane
research, all that sort of stuff. And
look, I get it. The writing quality is
great. But actually, that kind of
objective quality is only half of the
equation. The other half of the equation
is how tailored is a piece of writing to
your interests? Like, I read the Power
Broker when I was living in New York
because I was living there. kind of help
me understand my environment. But if I
was living in Austin, Texas, there's
just no way that I would read that book.
It's not tailored enough to like what
I'm focused on right now. And with the
Gibbons example, I haven't read The
Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire
because I'm just not that interested in
the Roman Empire. You know, it's like I
get that the writing is good, but like
how how much the writing aligns with
like what I'm curious about right now,
that is the other half of quality. So
quality is one half the objective
quality of a piece of writing but the
other half is how tailored is it to your
interest and this is the thing about
chat
GPT. I agree with the critics that the
writing quality the objective writing
quality isn't as high. You're absolutely
right. You're absolutely right.
Completely agree. But what I love about
reading with chat GBT and having AI
generate writing for me is that it's
perfectly tailored to my interest at all
times. We're talking about the Ladybird
Lake thing, right? I could go read the
best book or article that has ever been
written on the flora and fauna of the
city of
Austin. I bet there's a good book. Maybe
it's even won a pullet surprise. But
actually, it's going to be overkill.
What I really just want to know is tell
me what I need to know about the floor
and fauna between where I work and where
I live in the in March, this exact
moment right now, so that my walk can be
more enjoyable, right? It's so much more
specific. It's so much more tailored to
my interest. It's actually shorter. So,
I don't have to like sort through a
bunch of information. So, it's on the
tailored to your interest dimension of
quality that AI has massively improved.
And here's the other thing. I'll uh I'll
give you some more hope in terms of why
writers will continue to be just fine.
Whether you're writing with AI or you're
writing without AI, the core skills that
you need to succeed as a writer are
exactly the same. They're exactly the
same. What are those core skills? Taste.
The ability to discern what's worth
keeping and what's not worth keeping.
Look, whether you're writing on your own
and you're generating a bunch
of words with your own fingertips or
you're working with AI and the AI is
generating sentences and paragraphs,
whatever. The vast
majority of what ends up being
generated, you actually end up removing.
It's just that AI is going to end up
generating more stuff and you're just
going to end up cutting way way way way
more. That's it's true that you're going
to cut the majority of what you write,
whether you're writing yourself or
whether the AI is doing it. And a lot of
what writing is is just putting a bunch
of words on the page and you sort of
have it there. You sort of have the
marble and then you begin to sculpt. And
Michelangelo said that what you need to
do to make a great statue is just remove
everything that isn't what that final
statue should be. And that's true
whether AI is writing or you're writing.
So much of it is just taste and
discernment. That's the first thing and
that'll continue to be true. So much of
what AI will produce will be not quite
right. It'll be junk. And guess what?
It's the same thing with me. So much of
what I produce is just absolute junk and
nonsense and clutter. And I just I get
rid of that stuff. So that's the first
thing. Taste is the first core skill and
that will continue to be important. And
the second thing is a spiky point of
view. That is a unique insight, a unique
belief about what you believe to be true
about the world. And man, if you can
have that something that is like this is
my bold take, you know, like my take on
Austin is that Austin is a mediocre city
but a good place to live. Or this is the
famous Peter Teal interview question,
right? What do you believe about the
world that's true that very few people
would agree with you on?
those sort of secrets, he calls them,
those will continue to be valuable in an
AI future because AI isn't going to be
able to produce those nearly as well as
human beings, at least for a long time.
So just like in the past, the past 20,
30 years, just like in the present, just
like in the future, if you have a
distinct an idiosyncratic take about how
the world works, where the world is
going, you're going to be completely
fine. But that was true. It is true and
it will be true. You know what I mean?
Past, present, future. And I'll give you
a concrete example. So, I have a friend
who thinks that the future of education
is going to be school and there's not
going to be teachers. Instead of
teachers, you're going to work with
coaches. And instead of those teachers
who would basically lecture you with
information, those coaches are basically
going to motivate you. And since you're
not going to be sitting in lectures,
what you're going to do is you're going
to be learning through AI and you're
going to be learning through apps. And
he believes that because of that,
because it's so much more effective,
because it's so much more efficient,
that the kids are going to be able to
learn everything they need to know,
everything from K through 8 in two hours
of learning per day. And then his model
of schools, then you can spend the rest
of the day learning life skills, public
speaking, making friends, all that sort
of stuff, riding bicycles, whatever it
is. Kids can learn to ride a bike in
second grade. They learn to swim and
they can do that with with the rest of
their day. And this this is a crazy
idea. Like I've seen him pitch it and
people are like that is the most insane
thing I've ever heard. There's no way
I'm gonna send my kids there. But for
him, it's not some like pie in the sky
theory that he just like made up
someday. He's been thinking about this
for 25 years. He runs a school. He
already has data to show that it works.
They got the school. It's called Alpha
School in Austin.
And most people think it's insane. But I
think he makes a lot of good points.
said he thinks that he's right. He's
like, "This is the conviction that I
have on the world." And look, if you
have that kind of conviction in
anything, there's nothing to worry
about. That is what great writing has
always had. And AI is just not going to
be able to do that because AI's, at
least right now, and for the time being,
very trained on the consensus. So, this
is a major white pill for writers that
if you have good taste, if you have that
spiky point of view, you're going to be
just fine. You're going to be just fine.
And look, I would even say that those
are the skills that used to be true.
Those are the skills that will be true.
It hasn't really changed. And as I've
been thinking about quality, as I've
been thinking about the kind of writing
that is going to work in this age of AI,
I've been asking like, is AI going to be
more like chess or is there going to be
like music? And what I mean by that is
with chess, what has happened
is the AI, the computers are already
better than the very best humans.
They're really good. But you have people
like Magnus Carlson who are huge
celebrities. Huge celebrities. And
people don't really watch the computers
play chess. They watch the human beings
play chess. They want to see the human
drama. They want to see the rivalry.
They want to see two people duking it
out. Try to basically checkmate the
other person, right? So, when it comes
to chess, people care less about
perfection. They care more about
humanity. So, that's one path for AI.
The other path could be music. And what
I mean is like when you walk into a
club, right, you go to the bar, you
know, you step out on the dance floor
and there's a song playing. You're like,
damn, this song slaps. Like, you just
know it's good. You turn on the radio,
you hear a banger. You don't stop in
that moment and say, "Huh, I wonder how
this song was made." You know, did they
use Ableton? Was this uh was this an
electric guitar or was this an acoustic
guitar? Um is there sampling? You know,
what's going on there? You don't do
that. You're just like, "Yo, this song
is sick. This song is absolutely filthy.
Let's get down." And like, if it's a
vibe, it's a vibe. And you just keep
listening, right? And maybe later on
you'll be like, "Okay, how is that song
made?" And I was uh thinking about this
and I learned that sampling in the past
used to be kind of taboo. People were
like, "Oh, this is theft. This isn't
real music." And then what happened was
you had the Beasty Boys and you had Dr.
Dre. And then I remember Kanye West was
the guy who used a bunch of samples and
now sampling is like completely normal.
You're taking songs that were made in
the past. are sort of taking that beat
or a section from that song, bring it
into your song, and it's like completely
fine, right? There's actually a bunch of
songs, old songs that I found through
samples of new ones. Like there's a song
called Runaround Sue by G Easy that I
used to listen to all the time when I
was in college. It's like the most like
college dude song to listen to ever. And
I didn't realize that was like an old
song, you know, that you'd play on
record and whatnot. It was like when my
mom was growing up or whatever. And the
point is that sampling used to be the
kind of thing that people are like,
"Nah, you can't do that." And now it's
just completely normal. Completely
normal. And I think AI is going to be
like music. I don't think it's going to
be like chess. Right now, we're in this
time of those early days of sampling
where if you're using AI for your
writing to help you with your writing,
people are like, "That's not cool." And
a lot of people are like, "Whoa, that's
really not cool. I don't like this. And
look, I get it. I I I completely get it.
This is this is sort of a strange moment
right now. But you know what? I'm pretty
confident that in 15 years, of course
you used AI for your writing. It's just
it's just like a piece of technology. Of
course you used it.
And like sampling, you know, sometimes
you sample a song, sometimes you don't.
But people don't have like a moral
aversion to sampling now like they used
to. And I think AI is the same way.
Right now we have that moral aversion,
but I don't think that'll be true. And
this is the key point that I want to
make that the only thing that'll matter
will be the
objective quality of a piece of writing.
Let me repeat that. The only thing
that's going to matter is going to be
the objective quality of a piece of
writing. Cuz look, just as when I walk
into a club or some bar and I hear the
song, I don't care how it was made. I
don't care who made it. All I care about
is that the song is a vibe. And I think
it's going to be the same thing with
writing. I don't care if AI wrote it for
you. I don't care if AI wrote it with
you. I don't care if you wrote it by
yourself. I think in 10 to 15 years,
that is the only thing that'll matter.
See, I'm not interested in the best
writing that only humans can do. I'm not
interested in that. I'm interested in
the best writing, period. Period.
whatever produces the highest quality
writing. Yo, sign me up for that. Sign
me up for that. Now, once again, this
for non-fiction. But you know what's
funny? It kind of reminds me of special
effects in movies. Like, one thing that
really, really bothers me kind of more
than anything is if I'm watching a movie
and there's a special effect and that
special effect doesn't look real. Like,
it looks fake. It looks like a special
effect. And now I'm like taken out of
the the fantasy, the world of the movie
that I'm watching. and I'm like, uh,
okay, they just did special effects
there. It completely kills the vibe. And
it's the same thing with AI writing. I
already feel like an aversion to it.
Now, if I read a piece of writing and
I'm like, AI definitely wrote that. It
just has that sterility and all those
cliches that AI writing has, it just
infuriates me. It gets me so mad cuz I'm
like, you don't have the taste to just
do a good piece of writing and now
you're outsourcing to AI and you're just
like, oh, AI can do it better. And it
kind of just bothers me more than
anything. But for me, now this is my
opinion, if I read an amazing piece of
writing and it's just it's captivating,
it's compelling, the story is good, the
takes are strong, and someone's like,
"Yeah, you know, I used AI to help me
refine my ideas." I do not have a
problem with that. I do not have a
problem with that. I think I'm in the
minority now. I think I will be in the
majority in 10 to 15 years there. Okay.
But I do hate when writing was just so
clearly outsourced to AI. And here's the
other thing. Right now, everyone's
talking about AI slop. Everyone's
talking about it. And slop is a great
word, by the way. It's just like such a
good descriptive word. And everyone's
talking about it. Everyone says that
right now AI is the beginning of slop,
but in some way it's actually the end of
slop. Let me explain what I mean. So
let's just zoom out. For the past
decade, we'll start with SEO, then we'll
talk about online writing, the kind I
used to teach. So for the past
decade
in the world of SEO, what you would do,
say that you wanted to do like a recipe
for baking cookies, okay? What you would
do is you would try to get to the top of
the SEO ranking and you can try it.
What's really annoying about looking for
a cookie baking recipe is that there's
all this story. I'm like, I don't need
the backstory. I don't need all of these
photos. I don't need to hear that it was
like your grandma's story or whatever.
Just like tell me how much sugar I need.
Tell me how much cookie dough, how many
chocolate chips, what is the ratio? Just
give it to me straight. But the problem
is that the incentives of the SEO
industry are to increase time spent on
page because that's what Google search
rewards. And because of that, you just
need to add all of this freaking
nonsense. And the internet is just
polluted with it. Like if you go search
like tell me interesting things about
London, the results are not going to be
interesting. They're just like all of
these travel sites with like here are
the 10 sites that you need to see. It is
to me the very definition of slop and it
is all over the freaking internet. It's
all over the place. I would way rather
have the chat GPT output that already
exists without any of the bells and
whistles. And here's the point that the
incentives of writing were completely
misaligned. What was best for Google was
to basically make money from ads. What
was best for the creators of the recipes
or the travel sites was hey we need to
rank high on Google so we need to serve
Google because of that we need to add a
lot of slop so that the time spent on
the page which is like a crucial metric
for Google increases and then the people
people like me people are like you we're
just like guys can you just give us the
dang answer you know what I mean so you
had this total misalignment and I think
that is the epitome of slop That was the
SEO world, but how about the personal
writing world? I used this strategy
completely. And the strategy was you're
going to pick a niche. You're going to
write consistently about that niche,
hopefully publish something every single
week. You're going to then constantly
tweet about it. And then under your
tweets, you're going to link to your
email newsletter. And then you're going
to send an email newsletter
consistently. And you're going to
publish that email newsletter every
single week. No matter what, you're not
going to miss a week. And even if
something isn't like the best thing that
you can possibly produce, well, hey, you
know, being consistent is super
important. So, go publish every single
week. That's what has worked on the
internet for the past 10 years. And hey,
that's what it rewarded. I saw that
strategy. I took advantage of it. It
really served me and a lot of my
students well. And you just sort of
repeat that cycle constantly and it
worked. But here's the thing.
Distribution was king. If you just had
distribution, you had enough email
subscribers, you would be fine. And what
mattered more was publishing
consistently than publishing the best
quality piece of content. And how good
your distribution was was often more
important than how good your content
was. Like I published a newsletter every
single week for 5 years and I wasn't
always entirely happy with it, but I
just did it because that's what worked
on the
internet. You know, you could say,
"Dude, David, you are kind of
contributing to slop." And here's the
thing, that age is gone. like my chances
of succeeding with that strategy in five
years are so much less than my chances
of succeeding with that strategy five
years in the past because your writing
just has to be really good now in the
age of AI. And I get that a lot of slop
is going to be produced, but hopefully,
and this is my hope, that we have good
algorithms, and that's basically what
algorithms do, right? They ignore
99.9999. Insert however many nines you
want. They ignore that much content to
only give you the very best stuff that's
tailored to your exact interests. Now,
quality is king. And I think content's
going to be king because if you publish
something really good, that's the only
way to rise up above the AI. Here's how
I define slop. I define slop as when
simply publishing or getting something
done is more important than the quality
of what you publish. And I would say
that so
much of the online writing going back
the last 10 years was slop under the
definition I just gave. and he ain't
succeeding with that now. And the reason
is that the bar for the kind of writing
that people are going to read is already
increasing and it's going to continue to
increase because now you're not just
competing with other human beings and
like the scale of the internet and other
human beings, you're competing with
computers and computers can produce
information so fast. And now what I want
to do is I want to move
into how do I actually write with LLM?
Like what do I do? Okay, I want to just
distinguish between two kinds of
writing. There's AI that writes for you.
There's AI that does writing with you.
And I've yet to meet a good writer, a
good writer that I admire and respect
that thinks that AI can do the writing
for you. Not one. Okay. But I know a lot
of serious writers that I admire. They
write with AI all the time. And that's
what I do, too. So, here is an example
of what I mean when I say writing with,
not for. So, I grew up in San Francisco.
I now live in Austin, Texas. And I love
that city. It's so beautiful. It has so
much potential. The city by the Bay. I
mean, Tony Bennett has a song. He says,
"I left my heart in San Francisco."
That's how I feel. I love that song
because I feel this like deep emotional
connection to that city.
But the city's been just destroyed and
tarnished by bad politics.
And I could say, "Hey, ChatGpt, I want
you to write me a piece about how San
Francisco has been destroyed by bad
politics." Yo, what it's going to
produce is going to be absolute
nonsense. It's just not going to be that
good. Now, it could do a deep research
report that could be fairly interesting
and maybe I would do this like, "Hey,
walk me through exactly how that
happened. Let me understand the
history."
But there is a opportunity for me as a
writer and this is what I mean when I
talk about writing with AI. Maybe I
would team up with the deep research to
say, "Hey, can you give me some of the
historical background?" But really what
I would do is I would tell you stories.
I would tell you stories about like in
seventh grade, my mom came home and she
was covered in blood because she had
been walking home from the train to her
car and a guy came up to her, threw her
to the ground, took her purse, and then
they left and completely drove away. I
could tell you stories about how when I
was in middle school those years, I was,
you know, this kid, uh, super innocent
kid at the time, and I'd come out in the
mornings, we'd go to school, and the
windows would just be shattered because
people had broken into our cars. I could
tell you a story about how I went to the
Oreium Theater on Market Street one year
and I picked up a syringe as a kid and I
was like, "What is this thing?" And my
dad was like, "Put that down right now."
And I didn't learn why there were
syringes in the middle of San Francisco
until I was in high school. I could tell
you stories about how a few of my
friends from high school in San
Francisco, they had to go to drug rehab
because the drug situation moving in and
through San Francisco is just so bad.
And my point is this, AI is not going to
give you that. Those are stories that I
had to learn from my experience in San
Francisco that I think will give that
piece so much more life and help you to
see the heartbreak that I feel about how
San Francisco's been destroyed. AI, I
can't give you heartbreak when it comes
to writing with chat GPT. Here's what I
do. A lot of the way that I start, like
I love just speaking out ideas. I I I
love doing it. So, what I'll do is I I
don't really like typing. It hurts my
fingers and, you know, I feel like I'm
going to get early onset arthritis or
something like that.
And what I'll do is I'll just go on
walks and I'll just speak out my ideas.
And what I do is I have a prompt and I
can share it in the description. I have
a prompt where what I'll do is I'll say,
"Hey, I've just spoken something out.
Can you turn that to an outline?" Or
what I'll do is I'll say, "Hey, can you
turn that into pros?" And
I'll create the ideas. And then I'll
have AI kind of help me out. But then
it's not just that. I'll say, "Hey, what
ideas that I just shared were
particularly interesting? What stories
do you need more information on? What
transitions were unclear?" And I'm sort
of instantly getting feedback so that
I've just finished my version one. And
then I can get the things that are
unclear, the things that I need to share
more about. And then I can just do a V2.
And the AI, the transcription is just so
good, is a thousand times better than
Siri. And then what I'll do is I'll ask
the AI based on what I've shared, I'll
say, what are the weakest points of my
argument? What are the most boring
parts? What are the best parts that I
should double down on? What transitions
weren't clear? And what more would you
need for a story to really work? So, it
might say, "Hey, you know, you told that
story about your mom. Tell me about your
mom. What does she look like? What was
she wearing? How old was she at the
time? What was the night like?" Right?
It was really foggy. Okay, interesting.
The fog is like a really good motif for
that. And maybe I wouldn't think about
that. AI is really good for that. Not
because it's like the best editor in the
world, but because it's going to be
instant, it's going to be fast. It's
going to be free to work with, you know,
and I can just start being in dialogue.
And then what I'll do is I'll start to
actually sit down. I'll begin to write
the piece with with AI.
So, I've been doing this for the piece
that piece I've been writing about
Christianity really thinking through
character development. That's something
I want to get better at. And I'll say,
okay, what do I need to know for what
makes a good character? So, tell me from
like the theory of writing of Hollywood
and movies and literature, what makes
for good characters? And so, I might
get, okay, these are the four things.
And then I'll say, "Okay, based on these
four things, I want you to interview me
about these characters from the piece
I'm writing, Brent and Brian." And
through that interview, it'll kind of
get my brain going and get words on the
page. And I find that the back and forth
is so much more generative than me
trying to do it all on my own. So now I
have AI as a thinking partner. Now, this
is a prediction and I'm not quite sure
what's going to come from it, but I do
think that AI is going to breed new
kinds of writing that we've never had
before. And I credit my friend Justin
Murphy with this idea. But we were
talking about the Renaissance and how
new technologies that had come out at
the time actually led to the change in
art. So, like you ever go to a museum
and you're in the medieval painting
section and like everything looks super
flat, like there's no depth and
perspective and those are like 13th
century paintings and then you look at
like a 15th century Renaissance painting
that was made in Florence and you all of
a sudden you see that perspective shift
and clearly something happened to change
how people view the world and at least
were able to paint. Well, what happened
is there were a few technological
innovations that actually led to that.
So the first was the camera obscura and
that that allowed artists to basically
trace images that they would project and
then they were tracing and then that led
to what they created. So that was the
first one and then the second was the
perspective grids. So there was a guy
named Leon Alberti and what he figured
out he was an architect who's sort of
this polymathic guy but he figured out
that you could use these perspective
grids and you could use them to draw and
then you could show perspective in the
painting. And now you could ask man you
know is this guy cheating? Like we used
to paint all by ourselves. Dude, you are
completely cheating. But like now we
look at a painting we're like I'm just
happy to have perspective. I'm really
glad that we had technology that allowed
us to make that development. And I think
that something similar is going to
happen with AI where right now we're
going to end up having these
technologies that change how we think
about writing, how we see writing, and
it might even lead to changes in the
kinds of writing that we produce. I
don't know what those are going to be,
but I think there's going to be some
interesting things. Actually, one just
came to mind, which is some stories that
you can tell that are almost like Mad
Libs where you can change different
things in the stories and then you can
personalize those stories. might be like
kids stories. You can personalize those
stories for the interest of the kid. So,
say that one kid is really interested in
the Denver Broncos football team and
another kid is like really interested in
ballet and she like loves ballet and
she's from St. Petersburg, Russia and
she wants the setting to take place
there. The little boy wants the setting
to take place in Denver and you could
have the same general story that all the
kids in the class read, but then that
story is tailored for all the kids'
interests. So the idea that you produce
one piece of writing that everybody
reads might change where you can change
different things inside the piece of
writing to really tailor it for what
people are interested in. That's what I
mean. I think we're going to get some
changes in the kinds of writing that
become popular. And so what I'm working
on when it comes to writing with chat
GBT is I'm working on a custom project
folder for my writing style. And I'm
basically trying to
say here's how it's structured. The
first section is sort of at the top.
It's what do I want my writing to be
like and what don't I want my writing to
be
like. Let's just really describe it
super clearly. That's the first section.
Lay out say 10 bullet points for each,
right?
And what I've done is I haven't just
thought about this, but what I've done
is I've taken my best writing and I've
said, "Hey, I want you to actually
analyze this for me, AI, and tell me
what are the things that are going on in
the writing and I want you to describe
it. And then I'll take the best
descriptions that it gives me and feed
that back into it." And I'll use AI and
work with it to really compress it so
that I have the clearest, most succinct
descriptions of what I am and am not
going for. So that's the first thing.
And then the second thing is from there
training data on all the things that I
do and don't want. So say that I want my
writing to be interesting, right? We use
a very cliche and bland example. Well,
I'm going to put in a lot of paragraphs
that I think are particularly
interesting. And then I'm going to
actually describe why I think that
paragraph is interesting and say, "Hey,
I want your help getting me to write
like that as you give me feedback."
That's exactly what I'm going for. and
training data is going to be more and
more important. The way that I'm taking
notes is beginning to change because of
AI. Right now, it used to be that I
would take notes for me to read. Now,
I'm increasingly taking notes for AI to
read. And what that means is that when I
just had my own notes, I wanted a bunch
of different small notes and then I
could search and I didn't have to spend
a bunch of time scrolling. With AI, it's
very different. Rather than having a
bunch of pages with a little bit of
information, I want a few pages with a
lot of information on them. And here's
why. AI can do the searching. It can do
the scrolling, no problem. And the
context windows for AI are getting
bigger and bigger and bigger. And here's
what I mean by that. So, if
you say, "Hey, I want your help with my
writing." I might now be able to put in
30 40,000 words of training data. In two
years, I think I'll be able to put in 2
million words worth of training data and
then 10 million words worth of training
data. And it'll easily be able to parse
that. So, I'm just going to have these
giant documents for different parts of
my life
that I'll just be able to plug into the
AI and it'll be able to to read the
whole thing for me. And if I have a
bunch of different documents, then I
always have to copy and paste that. So,
the way that I'm taking notes is
beginning to change. And I'm starting to
think about how do I write for LLM as
much as my future self when it comes to
taking notes so that I can really begin
to work with these LLMs and give them
context on how I want to write, what's
going on in my life. meeting notes. Like
another thing is maybe I put all my
emails that I've really thought were
good into a single document and then I
say, "Hey, I want your help writing
emails. Do it in the style that I've
shared." And it's, you know, 100,000
words worth of emails that I've written.
And that leads me into how I think with
LLMs. So, when I'm discovering new
ideas, I found that jamming with LLMs is
more useful than talking to basically
any person in my life, save for like a
few people who I'm close to who give
really good feedback. And look, I'm not
the only one. Microsoft CEO Saki
Nadella, he is no schmuck. He is a smart
guy. Here's what he said. The new
workflow for me is that I think with AI
and work with my colleagues. That gets
to the heart of it. You think with AI,
you work with your colleagues. You're
going back and forth. You're working
through problems, strategy with the
different AI. And on the same
wavelength, I have a friend in town,
super successful guy, probably has 2,000
employees working for him. The guy was
talking about earlier, right? And you
know what he said to his executive team?
He said, "It's gotten to the point where
talking to an LLM for an hour is more
useful than about
70% of the conversations I have with
you." And that's his executive team.
These are talented freaking people. This
isn't to say that his executives aren't
competent. It is to say that the LLMs
are already at the point where if you're
really good at prompting, and it has a
lot of context. He's really good at
bringing in strategic context into the
chat window. These LLMs are really good.
And you know what? I've been having a
blast with. Oh my goodness, it's so fun.
So Grock is the Twitter AI. And if you
go into Grock, it has all of these modes
at the top. Like it has assistant and it
has storyteller, meditation, unhinge,
sexy, whatever. But my favorite one for
thinking is argumentative mode. I've
started playing with grock to really
think through through ideas with. And
what I'll do is I'll take something I
have very high conviction in and I will
say, "Hey, I want you to challenge this.
I want you to argue with me and I want
you to point out my core thesis and tell
me why it's wrong." and we'll get on
voice mode and we will just start
arguing. Like the other day we were
arguing about something here and she was
like, "What? So, you're just going to
get LM to do all your thinking for you
because you're talking to LLM? Like, you
are so freaking lazy. What the heck is
wrong with you?" And I'm like, "How dare
you call me lazy? It's not that LM's
giving me the answers. It's that LLM is
helping me ask good questions and then I
can find answers in my mind." And the
core thing is that the answers are like
these little chambers in my brain. And
the LLM is like shining a spotlight in
different corners of my brain and then
helping me find these little treasure
boxes of insight that I would have never
found on my own. What the heck is wrong
with you? And so we go back and forth.
It's so fun.
And that is what I'm using LLMs for. And
a lot of the people who you end up
talking to, they'll be too agreeable or
too disagreeable and they'll sort of
stay in that lane. What's really fun
about arguing with the LLM is you can
get it to act exactly how you want it to
act. So like the other day I was getting
really annoyed with it because it was
just being too argumentative. So I was
like, "Hey, can you just tone it down a
bit and actually just be more supportive
here and I'm giving you these ideas. Can
you just help me find and shape the best
ideas that I have? Let's work together
and then a few minutes I'm going to ask
you to argue with me." And so that's
what we did. And then what I do is I get
to the very end and I say, "Okay, based
on this entire conversation, I want you
to do this. I want you to summarize what
are the key points that I made. What are
the key points of push back that you
gave me? And what questions should I
think about for next time?" And I'll
just scroll to the bottom of the chat
window and I will just have a full
summary of what we spoke about. And
look, this might sound weird, but it's
actually kind of refreshing to be in
like an extreme argument with somebody
when I just know it's not going to
impact the relationship, right? Like if
I did this with a friend, we're just
fighting with each other like that, it'd
be kind of a thing, right? But with the
AI, it's like whatever. So I can go
harder, they can go harder. It's good
fun. So where is all this going? We've
been talking about the sata Nadella
thinking with AIs, working with human
beings. I was talking about those long
context windows. Now we're talking about
arguing with the AIs.
And one killer app of LLM is going to be
memory. Humans are really bad at
memorizing things. We're really bad at
it. Our memories are not good. So, funny
story from uh from last weekend. So,
I've been, you know, seeing this girl
and uh it's one of our, you know,
fourth, fifth date and uh she had a
tough week. So, I was like, "Hey, you
know, what would make your week really
good?" She's like, "Hey, you know, I
just want to get dressed up and go to
dinner." I said, "Great. We'll go to a
steakhouse in town." So, I'm like, "All
right, this is going to be a great
night. you know, pick her up in the
Uber. We're going and I'm dressed in the
nines, she's dressed in the nines,
everything's in a great spot. And uh
we're walking up to the steakhouse and
I'm like I finally tell her, "Hey, you
know this where we're going?" I say,
"Hey, this is my favorite steakhouse in
town." She goes, "Uh, wait, you took me
to a steakhouse? I told you twice. I
don't eat red meat." And it was just
like instant just like change in vibe.
And I was just like, "Oh my goodness,
you're so stern." I was super
embarrassed. Felt so much shame. I was
like, "Dude, you've got to be kidding
me." And all this is to say, humans
don't have good memories. Humans don't
have good memories. The rest of the
dinner ended up going fine. Took us like
20 minutes to get over it. But humans
don't have good memories. And we forget
things all the time. And AI is going to
be really good at remembering
conversations from weeks ago, from
months ago, from years ago. and it'll
just have that context at all times. If
you're comfortable doing this, I
recommend using Granola AI to basically
record your work meetings. And what
it'll do is it doesn't record the audio.
It'll just get a transcript, but what
it'll do is it'll take that transcript
and give you a summary at the end, which
then allows you to um right afterwards,
you can ask questions about what it is
that you spoke about. So, for example,
we're in a meeting on Tuesday of this
week, and I spoke out the intro for this
video in that meeting, but then me and a
guy I work with, we sort of forgot
exactly what the intro was, but I went
right into Granola. I said, "Hey, can
you tell me what was the intro that I
said that we should do during the
meeting?" And it just zip, zip, zip,
zip, zip, spelled it out for me. But
what's going to end up happening is
you're going to be able to say, "Hey, I
had lunch with my friend Sarah 2 years
ago. I haven't seen her in some time.
Can you remind me what it is that we
spoke about at lunch? And look, certain
people are going to be really
comfortable with this. Certain people
are going to be not comfortable. That's
a personal preference thing. But the
point is AI is going to be really good
at helping you to remember things. And
it's not just memory, but it's context.
AI is going to be able to look across a
wide swath of people and ideas and give
you context on what's going on. So, it's
not just going to look at your own goals
and your own notes, but it's going to be
able to look at, hey, what are all the
memos that have been written inside of a
company? What are all the emails that
have been sent? Say that you run a
company of thousands of people. I think
that this for better and for worse, AI
is going to consolidate
power
for people at the top. And here's why.
So AI is going to be able to basically
scan every single email and see exactly
what's going on and give instant
feedback on what people are thinking,
what they're writing from the
perspective of the CEO. So I got a
friend named Daresh Patel. He's got a
great podcast about AI and he was
writing about Google and Sundar Pinchai,
their CEO. And this was his prediction.
Okay, I'm going to read read you this
quote. Human Sundar simply doesn't have
the bandwidth to directly oversee
200,000 Google employees, hundreds of
products, and millions of customers. But
AI Sundar's bandwidth is capped only by
the number of TPUs you give him to run
on. And I'm adding this, but he
basically means like computer processing
power. All of Google's 30,000 middle
managers can be replaced with AI Sundar
copies. Copies of AI Sundar can craft
every product strategy, review every
pull request, answer every customer
service message, and handle all
negotiations, everything flowing from a
single coherent vision. A company of
Google scale can run much more as the
product of a single mind, the
articulation of one thesis than is
possible now. Now, that's a crazy
prediction of the future, but I can sort
of see it happening, right? where your
job as the leader is to write and write
and write and write and make your
thinking and strategy legible and then
you have basically an army of computers
who are reviewing everything and making
sure that the entire company is aligned.
I texted that to one guy who runs a big
company. He said, "Man, that would be my
dream." And other people are like,
"Wait, what?" Like, that's crazy. And I
think it speaks to something bigger
where AI is this unique technology in
that people who are managers, they have
totally said yes to this technology much
more than kind of rank and file people
who just do the work. And I think that
part of the reason is that working with
AI if you're a manager is actually super
similar to the way that you've always
done the work. But working with AI if
you're kind of a rank and file person is
completely different. So here's what I
mean. If you're a manager, what is your
job? Your job is to basically set a
vision, describe that vision, delegate
that vision, get a response, have that
response not be what you want, give
feedback, go through cycles of
iteration, and then eventually get
something that's pretty good, and then
pass it on. That's exactly what you do
with LLMs. It is the exact same motion.
And that's why I think managers are
like, "Oh, yeah. I've been doing this
for years." But the other thing is when
you're actually working with people,
there's going to be drama and you got to
manage a large team. You got to do
one-on- ones. For people who don't like
doing those things, they're like, "Oh my
goodness, this is amazing. I get to
delegate a lot of my work in the same
way I've always done it, but I don't
have to deal with the one-on- ones." And
I think that's why so many managers are
like, "Yeah, I'm fired up about this
technology. I see it. I get it right
away." Now people think of the LLMs as
sort of one big behemoth like Grock,
Chat GBT, Claude, whatever it is. They
sort of assume that they're all the
same. And 6 months ago, that was more
true than they are today. And I think
that the models are going to begin to
diverge. Here's why. What's happening is
there's crazy competition at the model
layer. And when you get crazy
competition, one way that people respond
is differentiation. So what you had with
for example Anthropic the company that
owns Claude when they released their 3.7
model which came out in February of
March of 2025 they said hey we're really
going to focus on coding for this model
and that's really where the improvements
are going to be. GPT 4.5 was really
focused on more qualitative parts of of
writing. Grock Grock is really focused
on free speech and even upto-date stuff
like the chatbt cutoff for knowledge is
like September 23 or something like that
and then it sort of uses search for more
recent stuff. Grock is much more up
to-ate. So like if I need something up
to date I go to Grock not chatgpt and I
think that the models are going to get
more and more distinct over time. And
when it comes to tracking what's going
on with AI, talk to your friends,
especially ones who work at big
companies about how they're using AI, a
lot of the coolest things are happening
in major companies and they're staying
kind of in private. Like I heard this
through the grapevine that Google
allows anyone who works there to
basically do searches with a unlimited
size context window. And I'm sure that
there's some really cool things that
that come from that. And I'm just
talking to different friends. They're
building internal AI tooling that I'm
sworn not to talk about, but a lot of
the AI progress that's currently
happening is happening in back channels.
So, just ask your friends what's going
on and just be like, "Yo, sh I won't
tell, but if you want to email me,
that's fine. You can tell me, but don't
tell anyone else." And look, a lot of
this future is already here. Actually,
this morning, a friend sent me an
article that said this. It's from Nature
Magazine Scientific Study. It says AI
generated poetry is indistinguishable
from human written poetry and is rated
more favorably. Now, this sort of a
crazy prediction. I got no scientific
study to back this up. It's just
something I'm kind of feeling right now.
But I think that AI is going to actually
allow us to communicate with animals. I
think that there's all of these deeper
forms of communication that are
happening in the world and we're going
to really understand that at another
level and we might be able to chirp with
the birds and stuff like the ravens
outside a little cardinal that's by your
window every single morning. I think we
might be able to start talking to them
and it's one of those weirder second or
third order effects that might come from
AI. And so it's not just that these
models are going to have increasingly
rising IQ, but they're also going to
have different personalities, which is
going to be great. I want completely
completely different models. I want the
different models to just be like be as
diverse as people are. You know what I
mean? And when it comes to thinking with
AI, I see it as already useful in a
bunch of different ways. So, at this
point, I think it'd be insane if you
have a medical issue to only talk to a
doctor. I
think talking to chat GPT or some LLM is
really a no-brainer thing to do at least
to get a second opinion. And once again,
that is a great place where you'd want
to talk to a bunch of different models
to see, hey, are you getting variant
different perspectives or the same
perspectives and how does that compare
to what your doctor is saying? At the
very least, you can ask your doctor way
better questions when you show up, which
will help you get a better diagnosis. I
think that's a no-brainer. When I was in
Buenos, Iris, I was trying to understand
sort of the immigration patterns of the
city. And this was one of those moments
for me when I was like, whoa, you can do
this. And what I did is I asked it to
make me a table from 1890 to 1920 in
Buenosirus during the early boom. How
much immigration came in all those
decades. But then also I want a table of
all the different places that people
came from. So Italy and Spain and then
when it where in Italy, Southern Italy,
Northern Italy and I couldn't believe
it. I couldn't believe how much easier
it was for me to just look at that data.
Google wasn't giving me good
information. If I wanted a book on that,
I just don't in Buenos. I don't know how
I would have gotten that. It was so easy
with with chat GBD. Now it could have
hallucinated there. I will completely
acknowledge that it definitely could
have hallucinated. So, here's the thing.
I wasn't doing this as like a scholar,
right? I wasn't taking what chat GBT
gave me and then instantly, you know,
writing that and sharing it. Hey, this
is like the gospel truth or something
like that. No, I was just trying to get
a general sense for what's going on. And
I had enough context where I was like,
"Okay, if it was telling me that a bunch
of people came to Argentina, came from
China, like I know that that's obviously
not true." And I was just kind of trying
to get a general picture of what was
going on. And AI is really good at that.
But look, hallucinations are definitely
a thing. I don't think that they're
nearly as big of a problem as they used
to be. They were a big problem two years
ago. Now they're less of a problem. and
still sort of in the cultural awareness.
I think that people think that they're a
way bigger problem than they actually
are. But do not do not just take
something that an LLM gives you and pass
it along for fact. Like you really need
to be careful there. Okay? And Benedict
Evans,
he's a technological analyst. He speaks
about this really well. I love
his synopsis of LLM. says that LLMs are
really good at things that don't have
wrong answers, but really bad at precise
information retrieval. And I think
that's right. So, like, if you're stuck
on a sentence in your writing and you're
like, "This sentence just isn't quite
right. Can you give me like 10 ideas for
how to improve this sentence?" Like,
there's no right answer there, right?
That's sort of a taste thing. It's a
felt sense thing. Or like, "Hey, uh,
next weekend I'm planning a birthday
party for a friend in upstate New York.
Hey, can you give me some ideas for for
what to do? These are the sorts of
things he's interested in. Can you sort
of help me with an agenda and an
itinerary? It'll be really good at that
cuz there's not like a right answer.
There's sort of a range of answers that
it could give you. That's what it's good
at. But like yo, for I need some really
good quotes from John Steinbeck, it's
just not going to be helpful with that.
And you can make you can make some
mistakes. So,
like hard-earned mistake here, okay,
paid the cost for this one. So, I got
this project called writing examples and
uh early on I was like, hey, you know,
we'll write a article about John
Steinbeck. So, what I did, I said, all
right, John Steinbeck uh has he ever
written something about food? And so,
I'm in GPT4 and we're going back and
forth and uh it gives me this quote and
it's just like the perfect quotes. It's
the perfect quote. So, I spent like two
days working on this quote about t
taking the quote and sort of analyzing
it. How does John Steinbeck write about
food? Then we were like, man, this quote
is so good. This information is great.
Let's go make a video about this. So, we
spent a bunch of time recording. We uh
you know, we get our editors on it. And
we're like, we're so happy with it.
We're we're we're so happy with it. And
so, we're like, yes, we're going to
publish the article. We're going to
publish the video. We send it out to
like 30,000 people and uh we get some
emails like, "Yo, John Steinbeck never
never wrote this quote in East of Eden."
And I was
like, it literally hallucinated the dang
quote. And ah, you
know, I learned that one the hard way. I
learned that one the hard way. And
that's just my point. When it comes to
quotes, it'll just make stuff up and
just completely BS an answer. And you
got to be careful there. Okay, so LLMs
tend to be good at the things that
computers are bad at and they tend to be
bad at the things that computers are
good at. Computers are really good at
just like precise information retrieval.
Like if you need this exact thing, LLMs
aren't precise in that way. You know,
they'll make stuff up all the time.
And there's good things about that and
there's bad things about that. So be
careful with hallucinations and don't
make the same mistake I did. real
embarrassing. And then also like when it
comes to how I use AI, you know what
it's really good for? It's really good
for meetings. So if you're meeting
somebody who especially somebody who has
some information about them on the
internet, if you put in a deep research
report and you say, "I'm meeting this
person. I want your help getting
background on them. This is what I'm
working on and these are my goals for
the meeting." Deep research. Okay, deep
research. It'll give you a really good
answer. And the advice that it'll give
you will be solid. Like I've been
meeting with some publishers for how I
write to help me get guests and before
the meeting I'll have deep research
create a whole report and it'll do a
really good job of saying okay if you
want to pitch how I write and I'll tell
tell them about the show what I'm trying
to do and they'll say if you want to
pitch how I write here's my advice and
the advice is pretty darn good. It's as
good as any advice that I'll get from a
from a human being. Okay. So, that's how
I think with LLMs. And I just want to
begin to wrap here and talk
about how to follow what's going on in
AI. And then I'm going to get super
concrete and specific about exactly how
I use every single model because by far
the craziest thing about this clearly,
uh, if these companies are using AI to
name their models, it ain't working well
cuz it's so darn confusing. So, I'm
going to talk through exactly what I do.
But here's the first thing. I got this
from Tyler Cowan on our recent How I
Wide interview and he made a great
point. He said, "If you want to
understand what's going on in AI, you
got to be using the latest models and
that means paying for them." Okay, the
free models are currently like 6 months
behind the cutting edge models and the
cutting edge models are just so much
better. Okay, deep research was the
iPhone moment for me with AI. It was
that moment when I was actually there. I
was at Mac World in 2007, I think it
was, when Steve Jobs announced the first
iPhone and I remember like I had some
flip phones before and I remember seeing
that thing. It was in this glass spiral
box rotating slowly and I was in seventh
grade and I knew that the world had
changed, that something something was
going to be different. That first
iPhone, it didn't even have the App
Store.
think it sort of ended up changing the
world, but you kind of just knew it when
the V1 came out. That's how I felt with
deep research. And if you're on a plan
that doesn't allow you to use deep
research and you're like, "Ah, AI isn't
there yet," you know, get on the get on
the bigger plan. I think you have a lot
more credibility in terms of your
critique if you're using the latest
models. And it's also going to help you
see how things are changing. So be on
the latest models and use different
models so that you can see what's going
on. And by that I mean cloud 3.7, Grock
3, chat GBT 4.5, OpenAI's deep research
tool. Um that runs on the unreleased 03
model. Like I know it's super confusing,
but those are the kinds of models that
you should be using if you want to be on
the cutting edge. You're going to have
to pay for them, but they are so much
better than than the free model. And
what always happens to me with AI
skeptics, this is the number one thing
that annoys me about AI skeptics, is
they'll be like, AI is not going to do
this. AI isn't doing that. And then
you'll talk to them and you'll be like,
"Okay, tell me about how you use GPT."
And they're like, "Well, you know, I
used it for this and it didn't give me a
good output at the beginning, so like
it's not that good." So I'm like, "Okay,
so if you worked with someone and the
first thing they produced wasn't very
good and you just stopped working with
them, like you wouldn't do that. You
would kind of work with them." And
that's the first thing that they do.
They'll just try using it one time. it's
not that good. They won't actually give
it a genuine try. That's the first
thing. And then the second thing is
they'll be like, "Oh yeah, you know, I'm
on the free plan of chat GBT cuz it's
not good. So why would I pay for it?"
And I'm like, "No, it's not good because
you don't pay for it." You know what I
mean? So what ends up happening is they
reinforce their own skepticism. Okay?
And I think that the mark of good
thinking is that whatever you believe,
you're trying to challenge it. So, if
you're like super bearish and skeptical
of AI, you're going to have a lot more
credibility with me if you're really
trying to use it well and if you're
using the latest models. But who cares
about me? Do that favor to yourself so
that you can see what's going on. It's
just going to give you a much better
sense. Now, I want to talk about what
models do I use for what? And I'm going
to get super concrete and specific. And
I'll start off with OpenAI and ChatgPT.
Their 4.5 model is the core model that I
make things with. Okay. So, it's pretty
funny with niche humor. It'll make me
laugh every now and then. And then also,
it's pretty good at writing with voice.
It's like a six and a half, seven out of
10, but it's way better than chatbt4 was
about a year and a half. Like way
better. But also, it's kind of
annoyingly corporate and sterile in its
output. And that's my least favorite
thing about writing with AI. the way it
sort of like sucks up to you and just
that annoying voice that it uses. H
tactically what I'll do is I'll talk
into my phone. I'll ask GPT4.5 to clean
it up as pros. I'll do a review on what
it's written and then I'll send it. And
now get this. Recently I did this for a
team writeup. So I had a I had something
I want to share sort of some feedback to
give. So I went on a walk and I did a
voice transcription. I said this what
I'm thinking about. You know I repeat
myself. I'll stutter. do whatever things
that all humans do and then it'll say,
"Hey, just clean it up and turn it into
a piece of writing for me and then be
really clear about the thesis and the
main point and it'll just turn it right
into pros." And I copied and pasted that
into Slack. And then at the bottom I had
sort of in italics these parenthesis and
I asked at any point as you were reading
this, did you think to yourself, "Wow,
an AI wrote this, did the final pass,
not David." And everyone said
no. Everyone said no. Like the output is
pretty darn good. It's pretty darn good.
Sometimes I need to do some editing, but
it's pretty darn good. And the same
thing happened to me last November. This
was another like wo moment for me. So
there was a at a friend who was in San
Francisco. I went out to a dinner and he
took a few bullet point notes at dinner
and then he fed those bullet points into
the AI and he shared a Slack message
with me and I said,
"Dude, what's going on? this is this the
best voice I've ever seen your writing
had. And he goes, "AI wrote it for me."
And I was like, "No way." And he's a
good writer. You know, he probably has
5,000 email subscribers. Like, he's not
Robert Caro, but like he's a good
writer. And I said to him, "This is the
best thing you've ever I've ever seen
you write." Okay. So, to get back to
this, I use Chat GBT4.5 whenever I need
to create something. And then whenever I
need to consume something, I'll use 01
Pro or Deep Research. And that's because
ChatGpt 4.5, it's pretty fast. And it's
relatively good at writing and
organizing information when I'm creating
something. But whenever I need to
consume something, I'm fine with it
being slower. And 01 Pro will take, you
know, two or three minutes to give me an
output. Deep Research will sometimes
take 20 minutes to give me an output.
But I'm happy to wait some time for
something that's really worth reading.
You know, when I'm making something, I
want it to be the feedback cycles to be
fast. But if I'm reading something, I'm
happy
to put in a prompt, go make some dinner,
come back, and I have something to read
while I eat. And then there's Claw 3.5
and 3.7. So, these are really good for
writing with voice. They sound the most
human. Now, people tell me that's really
good for coding, and I don't really use
it for that. But what's funny is that I
really like the tables that chat GPT
produces, and then I like the charts
that Claude produces. So, what I want to
figure out how to do is how do I get
really good data into Claude and then
have it produce charts for me? And if
you're trying to make an argument in a
piece that you're working on, a lot of
times a chart will be super useful. And
like I guess you could kind of do it in
Excel, but you can't really use natural
language in the same way. You can do
that in Claude and have Claude make the
chart for you. And it's really worth
playing around with because a chart can
just in the snap of a finger make your
argument for you and you can show
something really clearly. So that's
something to think about as you're
writing and working on pieces. And then
there's deep research. Like I said, this
was the iPhone moment for me with AI
whenever I want an in-depth explanation
of something. So I was talking about the
flora and the fauna in Austin at the
beginning of spring between my office
and where I live. And then the other
day, you know, I was driving on I35,
which is the highway that goes through
Austin. Here's exactly what I prompted
it with. I said, "It seems like there's
traffic every time I drive I35 through
downtown Austin. Why is there so much
traffic? I want a comprehensive social
and technological history of this road.
And I want to know why the traffic jams
are so uniquely bad according to data
and theories of engineering and road
design." Now, I had to wait 12 minutes
and 32 seconds for an answer. But look,
the writing, remember I was talking
about the quality, the absolute writing
quality was probably like a 7 out of 10,
but it was just 10 out of 10
personalized. The answer that it gave me
was super clear, super specific, and in
a situation like that, I'm a lot happier
just reading pretty good writing about a
topic that's then tailored to my exact
interest in that moment, the exact
question I had at that time. I bet
there's a legit incredible book about
like Texas highway design, but I don't
need that. It's complete overkill, you
know? I just want the exact answer. And
also, I'd have to do a bunch of
searching for information. So, I'm happy
to wait 12 minutes cuz it's 10 out of 10
with being tailored to exactly what I
want. And then there's Grock. Grock has
the most personality. Grock is your
crazy friend. I mean, look, it's like
Elon Musk in a box, right? It's like
it's not as bland as the other LLM. You
can, that's what I use to explain things
to me. So, if I'll read something,
there's like a technical thing that I
don't quite understand, I'll ask it to
give me a funny analogy or a simple
explanation, just, hey, help me
understand this. And then, like I was
talking about earlier, I love to argue
about it in voice mode. It's so fun to
do. You have high conviction on
something. Hey, let's just start arguing
with each other. And it'll just give me
a transcript of the entire conversation.
And then right at the end, this is the
thing you got to remember. at the end
ask for that summary of the best ideas
from the conversation. And now I haven't
tried this yet. I want to do it, but
Patrick Hollson, the CEO of of of
Stripe, what he does is he uses Grock
while he reads. So he'll turn on the
voice mode and say that he's reading
about 18th century England and there's
context that he doesn't really
understand. Rather than like opening
your phone and then you get distracted,
you can just ask Rock the question.
It'll give you the answer and then you
sort of have a tutor by your side
whenever you read. I really want to give
that a try. And the thing is to keep it
open while you're reading. Grock is
really good in the background. Now, I
was talking about hallucinations with
LLMs earlier and that's a problem. But
there's a solution. And the solution is
perplexity. Like if you want facts and
you want a quick answer and then really
clear and concrete sources for what
you're looking for, then use Perplexity.
It's good. But their deep research tool
isn't really that good. Chat GBTS is the
best by far. Grock has a deep think
model, but it's only okay. Use chat GPT
for the deep research. Then there's 11
Labs. So, we've done two things with 11
Labs. The first thing is their
speechtoext model is great. So, what
I'll do is I'll even take an MP3 file
like this podcast and I will put it in
and I'll instantly get a transcript of
the entire thing and it's really good.
So, that's how I'm getting my
transcripts now. And they're way better
than the kinds of transcripts that I'd
get from like a discript or a Rev
computerenerated going a year and a half
ago. I mean, it used to cost me
something like this would cost me 150
bucks for a transcript in a 24-hour
turnaround. Now it's free and it's a
10-minute turnaround. Like serious
advancement there. And then the other
thing is we clone my voice. We clone my
voice. So, what we did is we put in a
bunch of training data and if we ever
need to, we're working on a video or
something, we ever need to change a few
things in the video. We now have cloned
my voice so that we can type what it is
that we want to say and then 11 Labs
will just make it sound like me. And
that's going to end up changing audio
books. You know, if you want to change a
fact, you got something wrong in an
audio book on page 320, you're not going
to have to go back to the studio. You're
just going to be able to make a small
insertion. And look, it's not perfect.
It's definitely not perfect over time.
Like if you were to listen to me speak
for 10 minutes, you'd be like, "Okay,
this sounds a little bit robotic." But
at 10 seconds, I don't think you can
tell. Actually, we just did it and I bet
you didn't notice. That's how good it
is. You were just listening to something
that was cloned and you probably
couldn't tell. Go back, see if you can
tell. And then there's Granola. I was
talking about Granola for meeting notes.
It's the first AI noteaker to just
absolutely nail it. It's super
unintrusive in meetings. It
autogenerates meeting notes based on the
conversation that you had. It has a
transcript of the entire conversation.
And my favorite thing is that you can
search that transcript. And so it's not
just telling you what you said, but it's
almost giving you quick summaries of
what you said. So if you're like, "Hey,
we were talking about some some plans
that we wanted to do in Austin." It
would basically summarize those plans
and turn it into an output for
you. And then there's Whisper Flow and
Super Whisper. So, I don't like typing.
I love being able to go for walks or
just like walk around my my office as
I'm writing and I'll just speak things
out. And, you know, Siri is just really
annoying to use because it gets so many
things wrong. Whisper Flow and Super
Whisper are pretty darn accurate when
you're just trying to share things. And
what's really nice is I can just walk
around for like 5 minutes as I think
through something. I'll say 800 words
worth of stuff. It'll just instantly put
that on the screen. I can start writing
from there. And what it's using is it's
using not exactly sure how the
technology works, but pretty advanced uh
speech to text models to
basically assume things around
punctuation and capitalization and it
gets to know you over time. For example,
whenever I say how I write, it
capitalizes how and write, whereas like
Siri would make that lower case. And
it's like 10,000 little things like that
that make it really good. So that's how
I use it. That's how I use AI. And look,
it's just gotten to the point where if
you were to look at my life, the tower
of my life, and a Jenga block was pulled
from it, and it's like, "No more AI for
you," I would actually be really, really
bummed. I'd be really bummed at this
point. Um, AGI isn't here. We haven't
reached the singularity. No, none of
that. Like, just very pragmatically, I
just be really bummed. Like, this stuff
is fun to use. It's really helpful. It's
integrated into my life all over the
place. I'm probably doing 10 to 20 AI
interactions per day. Um, you know, it's
pretty crazy. I'm talking to AI more
than any single person in my life. Uh,
it's pretty wild to think about. And,
you know, here are the things I'd miss.
I'd miss going back and forth on an LLM
whenever I get stuck on a piece of
writing. I'd miss getting instant 80th
percentile feedback on my editing. You
know, I have a pretty darn good editor
right now who's better than the LLM
still are, but you I always got to wait
for his response and I get instant
feedback with the LLMs. It can interview
me, which is fun. It has context on what
I'm writing about. I miss totally miss
being able to speak out all my ideas
into the chat GPT app and just ask it to
write me an outline and structure the
ideas and tell me, hey, you're weaker in
these places, you're stronger in these
places. when I hear more, wanting you to
clarify this, give me more about that.
And man, the thing I'd miss the most is
instant deep research reports on
whatever I'm interested on. It's so cool
being able to do that. It's so cool
being able to do this. And so, if you've
you've listened to all this, you're
still an AI skeptic. That's my number
one recommendation is
just try deep research and give it an
earnest try. Okay? Give it an earnest
try. go in
and try to write a really good prompt
about something specific that you're
curious about where you know enough
about the topic that you can ask a good
question and then see how good the
answer is. I'm not tell I'm not saying
that it's going to be the greatest thing
you've ever read, but I am saying it's
going to be super tailored to your
interest and I think it's going to be
pretty darn good. All right, I know that
was a lot. And if you just want all of
that information in one place that you
can easily read, well, I put it on a PDF
for you. And it's not just the stuff I
just shared, but I have all of these
prompts that I use throughout my day.
I'll give them to chat GPT. And
everything is on that one PDF. So, if
you want me to just email it to you,
then what you can do is you can go to
pll.com/ai or you can just pop down to
the description. I need a way to send it
to you. So, go to that page, enter your
email, and I'll just flip it on over to
you. All right. So, if you just watched
this, you just listened to this, you're
like, "Okay, I want more of this. I want
to keep going down this rabbit hole." My
number one recommendation is the episode
I just recorded with Tyler Cowan, and
it's all about writing with AI. But
there's a few things that we talked
about in that episode that I definitely
wasn't able to talk about here. How to
read with AI. He speaks really well
about that. How AI is influencing
academia. why secrets are going to be
more valuable in an AIdriven world. And
look, the title of the episode explains
it pretty well. It's something like how
to write with AI in 68 minutes. So, if
you just want to go check that out, you
like this, then I recommend going to
watch that episode. But also, look,
there's probably going to be a lot of
questions and I'm usually somewhat
active in the YouTube chat comments. I'm
going to be really active for this
episode. So, if you have questions about
how to write with
AI, things that I said that maybe
weren't clear, just ask a question,
share your reactions in the YouTube
comments, and let's just all have a
conversation. I'll pop in and we can we
can all figure this stuff out together.
All right, thanks for hanging out.